.\"
.\" client.conf man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2021-2025 by OpenPrinting.
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH client.conf 5 "CUPS" "2025-10-23" "OpenPrinting"
.SH NAME
client.conf \- client configuration file for cups
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBclient.conf\fR file configures the CUPS client and is normally located in any of the following directories:
.IP \(bu 5
.B /etc/cups
.I or
.B /usr/local/etc/cups
\fI(root account)\fR
.IP \(bu 5
.B $SNAP_COMMON/cups
\fI(snapcraft-based applications)\fR
.IP \(bu 5
.B $HOME/.cups
\fI(historical per-user settings)\fR
.IP \(bu 5
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/cups
.I or
.B $HOME/.config/cups
\fI(current per-user settings)\fR
.IP \(bu 5
.B %USERPROFILE%/AppData/Local/cups
\fI(Windows per-user settings)\fR
.LP
Each line in the file can be a configuration directive, a blank line, or a comment. Comment lines start with the # character.
.LP
\fBNote:\fR macOS applications can access many of these settings in the \fI/Library/Preferences/org.cups.PrintingPrefs.plist\fR file instead.
macOS also does not support the
.B ServerName
directive.
See the NOTES section below for more information.
.SS DIRECTIVES
The following directives are understood by the client. Consult the online help for detailed descriptions:
.\"#AllowAnyRoot
.TP 5
\fBAllowAnyRoot Yes\fR
.TP 5
\fBAllowAnyRoot No\fR
Specifies whether to allow TLS with certificates that have not been signed by a trusted Certificate Authority.
The default is
.BR Yes .
.\"#AllowExpiredCerts
.TP 5
\fBAllowExpiredCerts Yes\fR
.TP 5
\fBAllowExpiredCerts No\fR
Specifies whether to allow TLS with expired certificates.
The default is
.BR No .
.\"#DigestOptions
.TP 5
\fBDigestOptions DenyMD5\fR
.TP 5
\fBDigestOptions None\fR
Specifies HTTP Digest authentication options.
.B DenyMD5
disables support for the original MD5 hash algorithm.
The default is
.BR None .
.\"#Encryption
.TP 5
\fBEncryption IfRequested\fR
.TP 5
\fBEncryption Never\fR
.TP 5
\fBEncryption Required\fR
Specifies the level of encryption that should be used.
The default is
.BR IfRequested .
.TP 5
\fBBrowseDomains all\fR
.TP 5
\fBBrowseDomains none\fR
.TP 5
\fBBrowseDomains \fIDOMAIN[,...,DOMAIN]\fR
Specifies the DNS-SD domains to browse for IPP printers.
The value
.B all
browses the ".local" domain (mDNS) and all registered DNS domains on the local system.
The value
.B none
disables browsing for network printers.
The default is
.BR all .
.TP 5
\fBFilterLocation \fILOCATION[,...,LOCATION]\fR
.TP 5
\fBFilterLocation \fI'LOCATION'[,...,'LOCATION']\fR
.TP 5
\fBFilterLocation \fI"LOCATION"[,...,"LOCATION"]\fR
Specifies a list of locations to use for destinations.
.TP 5
\fBFilterLocation \fI/REGULAR-EXPRESSION/\fR
Specifies a regular expression for matching locations to use for destinations.
.TP 5
\fBFilterType any\fR
.TP 5
\fBFilterType \fITYPE[,...,TYPE]\fR
Specifies the type of destinations to use.
The
.I TYPE
values are "mono" for B&W printers, "color" for color printers, "duplex" for printers with 2-sided printing capabilities, "simplex" for printers with 1-sided printing capabilities, "bind" for printers that can bind output, "cover" for printers that can cover output, "punch" for printers that can punch output, "sort" for printers that can sort output, "staple" for printers with a stapler, "small" for printers that support media up to US Legal/ISO A4, "medium" for printers that support media up to US Tabloid/ISO A3, and "large" for printers that support media larger than US Tabloid/ISO A3.
The default is no filtering.
.\"#ServerName
.TP 5
\fBServerName \fIHOSTNAME-OR-IP-ADDRESS\fR[\fI:PORT\fR]
.TP 5
\fBServerName \fI/DOMAIN/SOCKET\fR
Specifies the address and optionally the port to use when connecting to the server (not supported on macOS).
.TP 5
\fBServerName \fIHOSTNAME-OR-IP-ADDRESS\fR[\fI:PORT\fR]\fB/version=1.1\fR
Specifies the address and optionally the port to use when connecting to a server running CUPS 1.3.12 and earlier.
The default is the local spooler's domain socket.
.\"#SSLOptions
.TP 5
\fBSSLOptions \fR[\fBAllowDH\fR] [\fBAllowRC4\fR] [\fBAllowSSL3\fR] [\fBDenyCBC\fR] [\fBDenyTLS1.0\fR] [\fBMaxTLS1.0\fR] [\fBMaxTLS1.1\fR] [\fBMaxTLS1.2\fR] [\fBMaxTLS1.3\fR] [\fBMinTLS1.0\fR] [\fBMinTLS1.1\fR] [\fBMinTLS1.2\fR] [\fBMinTLS1.3]\fR
.TP 5
\fBSSLOptions None\fR
Sets encryption options.
The default is
.B None
which only supports encryption using TLS v1.0 or higher using known secure cipher suites.
Security is reduced when
.B Allow
options are used.
Security is enhanced when
.B Deny
options are used.
The
.B AllowDH
option enables cipher suites using plain Diffie-Hellman key negotiation (not supported on systems using GNU TLS).
The
.B AllowRC4
option enables the 128-bit RC4 cipher suites, which are required for some older clients.
The
.B AllowSSL3
option enables SSL v3.0, which is required for some older clients that do not support TLS v1.0.
The
.B DenyCBC
option disables all CBC cipher suites.
The
.B DenyTLS1.0
option disables TLS v1.0 support - this sets the minimum protocol version to TLS v1.1.
The
.BI MinTLS version
options set the minimum TLS version to support.
The
.BI MaxTLS version
options set the maximum TLS version to support.
.\"#TrustOnFirstUse
.TP 5
\fBTrustOnFirstUse Yes\fR
.TP 5
\fBTrustOnFirstUse No\fR
Specifies whether to trust new (self-signed) TLS certificates by default.
The default is
.BR Yes .
.\"#User
.TP 5
\fBUser \fINAME\fR
Specifies the default user name to use for requests.
The default is the login user name.
.\"#UserAgentTokens
.TP 5
\fBUserAgentTokens None\fR
.TP 5
\fBUserAgentTokens ProductOnly\fR
.TP 5
\fBUserAgentTokens Major\fR
.TP 5
\fBUserAgentTokens Minor\fR
.TP 5
\fBUserAgentTokens Minimal\fR
.TP 5
\fBUserAgentTokens OS\fR
.TP 5
\fBUserAgentTokens Full\fR
Specifies what information is included in the User-Agent header of HTTP requests.
.B None
disables the User-Agent header.
.B ProductOnly
reports "CUPS".
.B Major
reports "CUPS/major IPP/2".
.B Minor
reports "CUPS/major.minor IPP/2.1".
.B Minimal
reports "CUPS/major.minor.patch IPP/2.1".
.B OS
reports "CUPS/major.minor.path (osname osversion) IPP/2.1".
.B Full
reports "CUPS/major.minor.path (osname osversion; architecture) IPP/2.1".
The default is
.BR Minimal .
.\"#ValidateCerts
.TP 5
\fBValidateCerts Yes\fR
.TP 5
\fBValidateCerts No\fR
Specifies whether to only allow TLS with certificates whose commonName or subjectAltName values match the hostname of the printer or server.
The default is
.BR No .
.SH X.509 CERTIFICATE STORE
CUPS uses the system root CA certificate store and per-user certificate stores managed by CUPS.
The per-user certificate stores are found in
.B /etc/cups/ssl
or
.B /usr/local/etc/cups/ssl
for the root user and
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/cups/ssl
or
.B $HOME/.config/cups/ssl
.I (Linux/*BSD),
\fB$HOME/Library/Application Support/cups/ssl\fR
.I (macOS),
.B %USERPROFILE%/AppData/Local/cups
.IR (Windows),
and/or
.B $HOME/.cups/ssl
\fI(historical/other Unix platforms)\fR
for other user accounts.
.PP
Certificates, certificate signing requests, and private keys are stored as PEM-encoded files with the naming convention "COMMON-NAME.crt" for certificates, "COMMON-NAME.csr" for certificate signing requests, and "COMMON-NAME.key" for private keys.
The special common name "_site_" is used for a site-specific root certificate that can be used for trust evaluations.
.SH X.509 CERTIFICATE VALIDATION
CUPS supports validation of the certificate's commonName and subjectAltName field values, the certificate expiration date, and the certificate's root certificate(s), if any.
Self-signed certificates are "pinned" (stored) to the host in order to do validation.
Validation for certain non-printing servers may add additional restrictions to the policy defined in the
.B client.conf
file.
For example, OAuth authorization requires a CA-signed certificate.
.PP
The
.B AllowAnyRoot
directive controls whether unpinned self-signed certificates are acceptable.
The
.B TrustOnFirstUse
directive controls whether self-certificates are automatically pinned in the per-user certificate store for subsequent host validations.
When
.B AllowAnyRoot
is disabled,
.B TrustOnFirstUse
is also disabled.
.SH NOTES
Because of sandboxing, the
.B client.conf
file is not generally accessible to applications on macOS.
Configuration settings can instead be viewed or changed using the
.BR defaults (1)
command:
.nf
defaults write /Library/Preferences/org.cups.PrintingPrefs.plist Encryption Required
defaults write /Library/Preferences/org.cups.PrintingPrefs.plist TrustOnFirstUse -bool NO

defaults read /Library/Preferences/org.cups.PrintingPrefs.plist Encryption
.fi
On Linux and other systems using GNU TLS, the
.B /etc/cups/ssl/site.crl
or
.B /usr/local/etc/cups/ssl/site.crl
file, if present, provides a list of revoked X.509 certificates and is used when validating certificates.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cups (1),
.BR cups-x509 (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2021-2025 by OpenPrinting.
