.\"
.\" ipptransform man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2023-2025 by OpenPrinting.
.\" Copyright © 2016-2019 by the Printer Working Group.
.\" Copyright © 2016-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH ipptransform 1 "ippsample" "2025-11-24" "OpenPrinting"
.SH NAME
ipptransform \- convert document data to alternate formats
.br
ippevepcl \- convert document data to hp pcl
.br
ippeveps \- convert document data to postscript
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipptransform
[
.B \-\-help
] [
.B \-\-version
] [
.B \-d
.I DEVICE-URI
] [
.B \-f
.I OUTPUT-FILENAME
] [
.B \-i
.I INPUT/FORMAT
] [
.B \-m
.I OUTPUT/FORMAT
] [
.B \-o
.I "NAME=VALUE [... NAME=VALUE]"
] [
.B \-r
.I RESOLUTION[,...]
] [
.B \-s
.I {flipped|manual-tumble|normal|rotated}
] [
.B \-t
.I TYPE[,...]
] [
.B \-v
]
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ipptransform
converts the input file into the output format and optionally sends the output to a network printer.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by
.B ipptransform:
.TP 5
.B \-\-help
Shows program help.
.TP 5
.B \-\-version
Shows program version.
.TP 5
\fB\-d \fIDEVICE-URI\fR
Specifies an output device as a URI.
Currently only the "ipp", "ipps", and "socket" URI schemes are supported, for example "socket://10.0.1.42" to send print data to an AppSocket printer at IP address 10.0.1.42.
.TP 5
\fB\-i \fIINPUT/FORMAT\fR
Specifies the MIME media type of the input file.
Currently the "application/pdf" (PDF), "image/jpeg" (JPEG), "image/png" (PNG), "image/pwg-raster" (PWG Raster), and "text/plain" MIME media types are supported.
.TP 5
\fB\-m \fIOUTPUT/FORMAT\fR
Specifies the MIME media type of the output file.
Currently the "application/PCLm" (PCLm), "application/pdf" (PDF), "application/postscript" (PostScript), "application/vnd.hp-pcl" (HP PCL), "image/pwg-raster" (PWG Raster), and "image/urf" (Apple Raster) MIME media types are supported.
.TP 5
\fB\-o "\fINAME=VALUE \fR[... \fINAME=VALUE\fR]\fB"\fR
Specifies one or more named options for the conversion.
See the "NAMED OPTIONS" section for more information.
.TP 5
\fB\-r \fIRESOLUTION\fR[,...\fIRESOLUTION\fR]
Specifies the supported resolutions.
Resolutions are of the form "NNNdpi" or "NNNxNNNdpi", for example "300dpi" or "600x300dpi".
HP PCL output only supports resolutions of "300dpi" and "600dpi".
.TP 5
.BR \-s \ { flipped | manual\-tumble | normal | rotated }
Specifies the coordinate system for the back side of duplex sheets.
.TP 5
\fB\-t \fITYPE\fR[,...,\fITYPE\fR]
Specifies the output color spaces and bit depths, separated by commas.
Types include "adobe-rgb_8" and "adobe-rgb_16" for 8-bit and 16-bit AdobeRGB, "black_1" and "black_8" for 1-bit and 8-bit black, "cmyk_8" for 8-bit CMYK, "sgray_1" and "sgray_8" for 1-bit and 8-bit grayscale with a 2.2 gamma correction, and "srgb_8" for 8-bit sRGB color.
Run
.B ipptransform
with the
.B \-\-help
option to see the list of supported color spaces and bit depths.
.TP 5
.B \-v
Increases the verbosity for any diagnostics.
.SH NAMED OPTIONS
The following named options are supported:
.TP 5
.B copies
Specifies the number of copies to produce.
.TP 5
.B force\-front\-side
Forces the numbered pages to start on the front side of a sheet.
Only has effect when "sides" is "two-sided-long-edge" or "two-sided-short-edge".
.TP 5
.B image\-orientation
Specifies the rotation of each page image as an "orientation-requested" value.
.TP 5
.B imposition\-template
Specifies an imposition template to use for the input pages.
Currently only the "booklet" template (for printing folded booklets) is supported.
.TP 5
.B job\-error\-sheet
Specifies when and where to print the job error sheet.
.TP 5
.B job\-pages\-per\-set
Specifies the number of raster input pages per set for finishing operations.
.TP 5
.B job\-sheet\-message
Specifies a message to show on the banner page.
.TP 5
.B job\-sheets
Enables banner pages on the default job media.
.TP 5
.B job\-sheets\-col
Enables banner pages on specific media.
.TP 5
.B media
Specifies the media size as a PWG standardized media size name.
For example, US Letter (8.5x11in) is "na_letter_8.5x11in" and ISO A4 is "iso_a4_210x297mm".
.TP 5
.B media\-col
Specifies the media size as a collection.
Both the "media-size" and "media-size-name" members can be used to specify the size.
For example, both "media-col={media-size={x-dimension=21000 y-dimension=29700}}" and "media-col={media-size-name=iso_a4_210x297mm}" specify ISO A4 media.
.TP 5
.B multiple\-document\-handling
Specifies whether to produce uncollated ("separate-documents-uncollated-copies") or collated ("separate-documents-collated-copies", "single-document", or "single-document-new-sheet").
.TP 5
.B number\-up
Specifies the number of input pages to impose on each output page.
The values 1, 2, 4, 6, 9, 12, and 16 are supported.
.TP 5
.B orientation\-requested
Specifies the orientation of input pages, 3 for portrait, 4 for landscape, 5 for reverse landscape, and 6 for reverse portrait.
.TP 5
.B overrides
Specifies per-page overrides of "media", "media-col", and/or "orientation-requested".
.TP 5
.B page\-delivery
Specifies normal ("same\-order\-face\-down" or "same\-order\-face\-up") or reverse ("reverse\-order\-face\-down" or "reverse\-order\-face\-up") order output.
.TP 5
.B page\-ranges
Selects a single range of pages to print.
For example, the value "5-12" selects pages 5 through 12.
.TP 5
.B print\-color\-mode
Specifies the color mode as "auto" (automatic), "monochrome" (grayscale), or "color".
.TP 5
.B print\-quality
Specifies the print quality with value 3 (draft), 4 (normal), or 5 (high/best).
.TP 5
.B print\-scaling
Specifies the scaling to use when converting image files.
The values "auto", "fit", and "fill" are supported.
.TP 5
.B printer\-resolution
Specifies the print resolution using one of the supported print resolutions.
.TP 5
.B sides
Specifies whether to do 1-sided printing ("one-sided") or 2-sided printing ("two-sided-long-edge" for portrait and "two-sided-short-edge" for landscape).
.TP 5
.B x\-image\-position
Specifies the relative horizontal position - "center", "left", "none", or "right".
.TP 5
.B x\-image\-shift
Specifies the relative horizontal offset in hundredths of millimeters.
.TP 5
.B x\-side1\-image\-shift
Specifies the relative horizontal offset for front sides in hundredths of millimeters.
.TP 5
.B x\-side2\-image\-shift
Specifies the relative horizontal offset for back sides in hundredths of millimeters.
.TP 5
.B y\-image\-position
Specifies the relative vertical position - "bottom", "center", "none", or "top".
.TP 5
.B y\-image\-shift
Specifies the relative vertical offset in hundredths of millimeters.
.TP 5
.B y\-side1\-image\-shift
Specifies the relative vertical offset for front sides in hundredths of millimeters.
.TP 5
.B y\-side2\-image\-shift
Specifies the relative vertical offset for back sides in hundredths of millimeters.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B ipptransform
sends all messages to the standard error.
Each message is prefixed with "ERROR", "INFO", or "DEBUG" depending on the level of verbosity.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The
.B ipptransform
program returns 0 if the input file is converted successfully and 1 otherwise.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B ipptransform
recognizes the following environment variables:
.TP 5
.B CONTENT_TYPE
Specifies the MIME media type of the input file.
.TP 5
.B DEVICE_URI
Specifies the output device as a URI.
.TP 5
.B DOCUMENT_NAME
Specifies the title of the input file.
.TP 5
.B IPP_xxx
Specifies the value of the "xxx" Job Template attribute, where "xxx" is converted to uppercase.
For example, the "media" Job Template attribute is stored as the "IPP_MEDIA" environment variable.
.TP 5
.B IPP_xxx_DEFAULT
Specifies the default value of the corresponding "xxx-default" Printer Description attribute, where "xxx" is converted to uppercase.
For example, the "media-default" Printer Description attribute is stored as the "IPP_MEDIA_DEFAULT" environment variable.
.TP 5
.B IPP_PCLM_RASTER_BACK_SIDE
Specifies the coordinate system of the back side of duplex sheets.
The default is 'normal'.
.TP 5
.B IPP_PCLM_SOURCE_RESOLUTION_SUPPORTED
Lists the supported output resolutions.
The default is 600dpi.
.TP 5
.B IPP_PCLM_STRIP_HEIGHT_PREFERRED
Specifies the preferred strip height for the printer.
The default is 16.
.TP 5
.B IPP_PWG_RASTER_DOCUMENT_RESOLUTION_SUPPORTED
Lists the supported output resolutions.
The default is 300dpi.
.TP 5
.B IPP_PWG_RASTER_DOCUMENT_SHEET_BACK
Specifies the coordinate system of the back side of duplex sheets.
The default is 'normal'.
.TP 5
.B IPP_PWG_RASTER_DOCUMENT_TYPE_SUPPORTED
Lists the supported output color spaces and bit depths.
The default is 'sgray_8'.
.TP 5
.B IPPTRANSFORM_MAX_RASTER
Specifies the maximum number of bytes of memory to use when generating raster data.
The default is 16MB.
.TP 5
.B OUTPUT_TYPE
Specifies the MIME media type of the output file.
.TP 5
.B SERVER_LOGLEVEL
Specifies the log level (verbosity) as "error", "info", or "debug".
.SH EXAMPLES
Print a PDF file to a PCL printer at 10.0.1.42:
.nf

    ipptransform -d socket://10.0.1.42 -m application/vnd.hp-pcl \\
        filename.pdf
.fi
.LP
Print a PDF file to an IPP Everywhere printer at 10.0.1.42:
.nf

    ipptransform -d ipp://10.0.1.42/ipp/print -m image/pwg-raster \\
        filename.pdf
.fi
.LP
Convert a JPEG file to sRGB PWG Raster at 600dpi:
.nf

    ipptransform -m image/pwg-raster -r 600dpi -t sgray_8,srgb_8 \\
        filename.jpg >filename.ras
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ipptool (1),
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2023-2025 by OpenPrinting.
Copyright \[co] 2016-2019 by the Printer Working Group.
Copyright \[co] 2016-2019 by Apple Inc.
