.\"
.\" Introduction man page for libcups.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2025 by OpenPrinting.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH libcups 3 "CUPS" "2025-10-23" "OpenPrinting"
.SH NAME
libcups \- cups api library
.SH LIBRARY
.B pkg-config
.B \-\-cflags
.B cups3
.br
.B pkg-config
.B \-\-libs
.B cups3
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I #include
.I <cups/cups.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
CUPS 3.0 provides the "cups3" library to talk to the different parts of CUPS and with Internet Printing Protocol (IPP) printers. The "cups" library functions are accessed by including the
.I <cups/cups.h>
header.
.PP
CUPS is based on the Internet Printing Protocol ("IPP"), which allows clients (applications) to communicate with a server (the scheduler, printers, etc.) to get a list of destinations, send print jobs, and so forth.
You identify which server you want to communicate with using a pointer to the opaque structure
.BR http_t .
The
.B CUPS_HTTP_DEFAULT
constant can be used when you want to talk to the default CUPS spooler.
.PP
Printers are represented as destinations using the
.B cups_dest_t
structure which defines the local name as well as status and identification information such as the printer's Univeral Resource Identifier (URI), location, and model.
The
.B cupsEnumDests
and
.B cupsGetDests
functions can be used to get a list of available destinations while the
.B cupsGetNamedDest
function can be used to get a single named destination.
.PP
Capability and localization information for a destination is separately contained in the
.B cups_dinfo_t
structure and is queried using the
.B cupsCopyDestInfo
function.
The
.B cupsCreateDestJob
function creates a print job on a destination and the
.BR cupsStartDestDocument ,
.BR cupsWriteRequestData ,
and
.B cupsFinishDestDocument
functions add a document to the print job.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following simple program lists the available destinations:
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <cups/cups.h>

bool print_dest(void *cb_data, unsigned flags, cups_dest_t *dest)
{
  if (dest->instance)
    printf("%s/%s\\n", dest->name, dest->instance);
  else
    puts(dest->name);

  return (true);
}

int main(void)
{
  cupsEnumDests(CUPS_DEST_FLAGS_NONE, 1000, NULL, 0, 0, print_dest, NULL);

  return (0);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cups (1),
CUPS 3.0 Programming Manual
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2025 by OpenPrinting.
